RHDEVDOCS-3918 - Document Alertmanager for user workload monitoring (#46357)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/monitoring-enabling-the-platform-alertmanager-instance-for-user-defined-projects.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * monitoring/enabling-alert-routing-for-user-defined-projects.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="monitoring-enabling-the-platform-alertmanager-instance-for-user-defined-projects_{context}"]

> = Enabling the platform Alertmanager instance for user-defined projects

Reviewer: should it be "Enabling the platform Alertmanager instance for user-defined alert routing"?

Author: Revised per your suggestion

> You can enable the platform Alertmanager instance to manage alert notifications for user-defined projects. 

Author: Changed to your suggestion

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * monitoring/configuring-alerts-for-user-defined-projects.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="monitoring-enabling-the-platform-alertmanager-instance-for-user-defined-projects_{context}"]
= Enabling the platform Alertmanager instance for user-defined projects

> You can enable user-defined alerts to use the main Alertmanager instance to fire alerts for user-defined projects. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can enable user-defined alerts to use the main Alertmanager instance to send notifications for user-defined projects. 
```

Author: changed per your suggestion

.Prerequisites

* You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.

> * You have enabled monitoring for user-defined projects in the `cluster-monitoring-config` config map in the `openshift-monitoring` namespace.

Reviewer 2: `You have enabled monitoring for user-defined projects in the `cluster-monitoring-config` config map in the `openshift-monitoring` namespace.`
should be removed

Author: Removed

* You have installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).

.Procedure

. Edit the `cluster-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-monitoring edit configmap cluster-monitoring-config
----
+
. Add `enableUserAlertmanagerConfig: true` in the `alertmanagerMain` section under `data/config.yaml`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: cluster-monitoring-config
  namespace: openshift-monitoring
data:

>   config.yaml: |
>     alertmanagerMain: 
>       enableUserAlertmanagerConfig: true <1>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  config.yaml: |
    enableUserWorkload: true
    alertmanagerMain: 
      enableUserAlertmanagerConfig: true <1>
```

Author: added `enableUserWorkload: true` to the sample YAML

----

> <1> Set the `enableUserAlertmanagerConfig` value to `true` to allow users to create user-defined alerts that use the main platform instance of Alertmanager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Set the `enableUserAlertmanagerConfig` value to `true` to allow users to create user-defined alert routing configurtion that use the main platform instance of Alertmanager.
```

Author: Changed per your suggestion

+

> . Save the file to apply the changes. The main Alertmanager instance restarts automatically and applies the new configuration.

Reviewer: I'm not sure that the Alertmanager pods are going to be restarted.

Reviewer 2: not restarted
